---
title: "Day-17 of My Cybersecurity Learning Journey"
date: 2025-12-27 10:00:00 +0500
categories: [Daily Learning]
author: Amol Kumar
tags: [Networking,Tryhackme,subnetting]
---

# **What things I learned Today**
Today I started a new section in the networking from the Network+ course which is routing and learned about it, completed 1 room in the Tryhackme called CAPA, and practiced some subnetting questions from the practice site.

# **Networking**
Today I started Learning about the Routing from the course and Youtube
- First Learned about the Routing Fundamentals
- what is the routing table and the route in it.
- About the different sources where the routing information comes from
- Split Horizon and the Poison Reverse prevention method which is used to prevent loops.
- The two routes which creates automatically when the router is connected the connected and Local route also saw it practically in the labs.

Today I only covered few or can say half of the Routing, there is still left to learn in it, tomorrow goal will be to complete the routing section and atleast do one lab or create a network in Packet Tracer.

# **CAPA Tryhackme Room**
Today only completed one room in the cyber Security 101 path and learned about a Defensive tool called CAPA which is mainly used for the malware anlaysis and threat hunting
- CAPA is a tool which is used for the static analysis of malware and give all the details of the malware
- It is very essential tool for the defensive because it can get us know that how does that particular malware will work and what damages it will cause.
- The CAPA tool give the results of the malware in many sections, the MITRE, MAEC, MBC, namespace and compatiblity
- There were more thing to get to know about the tool and this tool requries knowledge to understand the result properly, I have done only the basics but to understand this tool much pracitce is needed.

---

This was all about the Day-17 ,Today I just did the networking, Tryhackme room and some networking concept and didn't created a network in the packet tracer because once I learn the routing properly then I will
practice the lab in the packet tracer and will create network. I think these days I am focusing much on the Netwokring part and the Tryhackme rooms are lagging behind, but the networking is also important.
Tomorrow main goal will be to first complete atleast one Tryhackme room in the starting and then will try to finish routing tomorrow with some packet tracer labs and with some subnetting questions 
