---
title: "Day-12 of My Cybersecurity Learning Journey"
date: 2025-12-22 10:00:00 +0500
categories: [Daily Learning]
author: Amol Kumar
tags: [Networking,Hydra,Tryhackme]
---

# **What I learned Today**
Today I completed two room from the Cyber sec 101 path on the Tryhackme, and continued my Network+ course on the udemy and learned new topic like the STP, NAC and MTU.

# Tryhackme Room
Completed two room from the offensive tooling section and learned about the Hydra tool and the Gobuster tool.

### Hydra tool
- Got to know why this tool is used and for what purpose.
- Hydra tool is used for bruteforcing most of the services and practiced the hands on practicals by bruteforcing the http and SSH protocol.

### Gobuster tool
- Gobuster used for enumerating the Web application with thier domain.
- learned about the three modes used in the gobuster the `gobuster dir`, `gobuster dns`, `gobuster vhost`.
- Got hands on practicals by using all of the modes and enumerated websites, thier domain, and the vhost in the web server.
- `dir` enumerates for the directories and files.
- `dns` enumerates the sub-domain of the domain.
- `vhost` enumerates the virtual host which is hosted by ther web servers.


# **Networking**
Continued my journey of learning networking with the Network+ and learned three important topics the STP, NAC and MTU.
- STP is a protocol which is used to stop the looping of frames between the switches by choosing a Root switch and creating a optimal root path.
- NAC is a security measure which decides that which device can connect to the network, and how much access they have to the internet by the authentication rule 801.x
- MTU is a maximum transmission unit referred to as a maximum size of a packet that travels between the network, and learned about the jumbo frames.

---

This was all about the Day-12Today's day went little bit productive learning concept, I decided to do the hands on practice of learning each and every concept in networking from tomorrow which is very important.

