---
title: "Day-14 of My Cybersecurity Learning Journey"
date: 2025-12-24 10:00:00 +0500
categories: [Daily Learning]
author: Amol Kumar
tags: [Networking,IDS,Tryhackme,Packet Tracer]
---

# **Things I learned Today**
I continued my Network+ course and learned the very important topic in networking which is Subnetting, and I did only half of the room in the Tryhackme which was on the IDS fundamentals, I only did half because there
is a lot to grasp the concept in the IDS and decided to finish it in the two days, and in the end Practiced some networking practically by creating some networks in the Packet Tracer.

# Networking Fundamentals
Learned the subnetting concept from the Network+ course, I have always been afraid of subnetting always had in mind that will I be able to understand it or not, but today learning it actually really removed some fear
of subnetting when I learned what is the core idea in subnetting, that it borrow some bits from the host part and shift it to the Network part, learned some more concepts like
- How to calculate how many the subnets can be created
- How to calcualte the assignable IPs in the subnets
- CIDR

There is a lot to practice in the subnetting, and this is the conecpt which will get to understand fully by doing practicing so tommorrow I will dig deeper in the subnetting and will practice more and more questions 
in it.

# IDS Tryhackme Room
Didn't learn much in the room only completed few task in it
- Learned about what actually is IDS and what does it do.
- Types of IDS, the host and the network one.
- Different ways of detecting alert by the IDS.
- and different modes of the IDS, packet sniffer, packet logging, network intrusion mode.

Used Snort as an example to learn and there is alot to learn in now, Will continue it tomorrow.

# Practiced Networking 
Today made a small network with the help of one switch , two pcs and one server and then accessed the server from those two pcs and noticed how actually the ARP packet flows all in the network then the http and the
TCP packet in the simulation mode, My goal was to do the subnetting part in the practical but I couldn't so my tomorrow goal is to do the subnetting in the Packet tracer practically and get make strong skills
in the subnetting.

---

This was all about Day-14 today's day also went like fine, daily I think that I can push more to myself but I feel like I am not pushing my self enough, although I am learning things and building skills but everything
feels like I am doing slow or not putting my all efforts in it.
