---
title: "Day-03 of My Cybersecurity Learning Journey"
date: 2025-12-13 10:00:00 +0500
categories: [Daily Learning]
author: Amol Kumar
tags: [Wireshark,Nmap,Tryhackme Room]
---

# **Topic I studied Today:**
Today I continued my Cybersecurity 101 path on the Tryhackme, and also learned about Wireshark tool from a course on Udemy and in the last also practiced some network scanning from Nmap and founded something Strange.

# Things I learned from the Cybersec Path on THM:

So I continued my journey and right now I am on the web hacking section of the Path and today did the Javascript room where I learned so much things about Javascript, Javascript is not a completely new scripting language to me, I have studied this as a subject in my semester but today also got to learn some more things and also practiced running the javascript on the browser console.

1.Learned about alert,promp, and confirm dialogue boxes that javascript provide as a feature and also practiced to write my own codes to test it.
2.Learned what security measure we should maintain while building a web application or too look out when pentesting a web application like not to completely rely on the client side validation, not to put hardcoded secrets in the javascript in plaintext format and minifying or Obfuscating the javascript code before deploying and many things.


# Learned and Practice two most important tools in cybersecurity the wireshark and the Nmap:-
Studied about wireshark from a course on the udemy although I have some basics about it and even also did some practice by capturing packets, but still there is more thing is left to learn, so today learned about the coloring filter in the wireshark and also made my own custom, and many more things like how to use the filter option in the wireshark which is the most essential thing in the wireshark.

The course provided some pcap files to follow along for the practicals and also did and saw those Layers of OSI working from frame to all top to the application layer.

Managed to filter out the desired protocols packets by applying filter.Tomorrow will continue the course.


# Practiced Nmap tool,Scanned my own network and founded something suspicious with the simple scan.

As I learnt some basics about the Nmap tool from the previous rooms I learned so today practiced it on my Linux and decided to first do the host discovery scan on my Own LAN network and founded something Odd and then in the end took the decision.

So I just used the basic nmap Host discovery scan with the option -sn which disables the port scanning in the nmap and look for the live host by using the ping echo and reply requests.

So when I ran I got the list off all the devices which are connected to my LAN network then when I got through the result one by one reading the host domain name and looking at the mac address then I founded that some devices are connected to my LAN network which does not belong to my network like some phone and TV and I got to know about by the domain name that nmap show sometimes in the result then I found One domain name "lgwebostv" which definitely didn't sounded good and then got to know that it is basically a lg tv connected to my LAN network which doesn't belong to my home and then did the scan again after sometime then got to see some more devices connected to the network which definitely doesn't belong to my house, then in the end it was clear that someone just got the Wifi password of our LAN network and was connected to our network.

So then took the step to stop this thing by changing my wifi password.





Today learned about my own network flaw from a small nmap scan.

