---
title: "Day-21 of My Cybersecurity Learning Journey"
date: 2025-12-31 10:00:00 +0500
categories: [Daily Learning]
author: Amol Kumar
tags: [Networking,Subnetting,Tryhackme Room]
---

# **Things I learned Today**
Today I completed one room in Tryhackme learning about the active directory which I left for later, then continued my Network services section from the Network+ course and learned more in the DNS topics and about
the Network Time Protocol, and in the end practiced 3 subnetting questions, didn't do much today.

# **Networking**
Conitnued the Network services section of the network+ course and learned about the DNS record types today and about the Network Time protocol, and about securing DNS there is one topic left in this section which is the Quality of Service
which I will complete tomorrow, today in networking didn' do much only practiced subnetting questons.

# **Tryhackme Room**
Today completed one room in the THM which about the Active Directory basics learned so many things about active directory today like now I know why I couldn't able to use some features in the Computer in my labs and who controls them and how.
1. Learned about the Domain controller and active directory
2. Learned about the objects which are present in a typical and about the organizational units and also created in tryhackme environment.
3. Learned about the Group policy object that we apply on the OUs as per our need so that we can control everything from the domain controller.
4. in the end learned about the authentication method used by the windows the kerbose and the NTLM one there is more to learn in it.
5. and learned about the tree and forest which is used in the big environment where there are more domain controllers

---

This was all about the Day-21 journey and with this 2025 ends, didn't do much thing today was also discrated on other works today. Today 2025 ends but this journey will continue until I reach my goal in cybersecurity.
