---
title: "Day-06 of My Cybersecurity Learning Journey"
date: 2025-12-16 10:00:00 +0500
categories: [Daily Learning]
author: Amol Kumar
tags: [Tryhackme Rooms,Linux commands]
---

# **Topic I studied Today:**
Today I did 2 rooms in Tryhackme, Learned the linux file permission commands like the SUID,SGID, and the sticky bit.

# That Two rooms of Tryhackme:

I started the new section in the cyber sec path 101 which is Defensive security and did two rooms in it one the SOC Fundamentals and the other one Digital Forensics Fundamentals.

These two rooms really gave me a good start for my Blue teaming journey, I literally started from why we need the blue teams, to what does the blue teams do like what actually our work is, to all till the end knowing the several roles in the Blue team.

I learned about the two main concepts of SOC and that is Detect and Response and about those three main pillars which make the SOC people, process, and the technology.

Also learned about the process we follow like the SOC LV1 roles is to do the alert triage and answer those 5 W's , reporting, and also about the different SOC tools like the SIEM, EDR and firewalls.

and also did a practical as a SOC analyst LV1 and took an action after acknowledging the alert in the SIEM in the TryhackMe enviorment.


There are also so many thing I got to learn in the Digital forensics, what is the initial process in digital forensics, the tools is used in the forensics and also learned about windows forensics and in the end also performed some digital forensics in the environment.



# Linux Concept: 

Learned some more advanced linux file permission concept the SUID, GUID and the sticky bit, and also practiced those linux commands in my own linux VM.

---

This is the END of the day 6



