---
title: "Day-19 of My Cybersecurity Learning Journey"
date: 2025-12-29 10:00:00 +0500
categories: [Daily Learning]
author: Amol Kumar
tags: [Networking,Subnetting,Tryhackme Room,Packet Tracer]
---


# **Things I learned Today**
Today I finished the Routing section from the Network+ course by covering the last topics left in it, Completed two rooms in the Tryhackme Path which was the security principles and the security training impact on teams,
Practiced networking in the packet tracer lab where conigured the IPs and Static routing so that Two PCs can communicate and in the end did 3 subnetting questions.


# Networking
Today Completed the rest of the topics in the routing section
1. Learned about the redundancy protocols which is used to maintain the reliability of the networks.
2. Learned about the Multicast routing which is used in the Class D IP address.

Now the routing section is also completed in the Network+ course, now will move forward in it to make my fundamentals in networking strong.


# Tryhackme Room
Completed Two rooms which were about the security principles and the importance of training for teams.Learned so many concepts in the Security Principles
1. Learned about the CIA Triad and its Opposite the DAD Triad.
2. also learned about other two principle like the Authentication and non-repudiation.
3. Then learned about the different types of security models which is used to build security in an organization
4. Learned about the defense-in-depth, Zero Trust, Trust but verify, and about the ISO/IEC 19249.
5. and in the end also learned about the vulnerabilities, Threats and Risks.

Got a very good understanding of security principles, this was just the beginning I will start learning from the Security+ course to make my Fundamentals of Security Strong.


# Practiced Network in Packet Tracer
Today again did a static routing lab and created a network where I assigned IPs and default gateway to two PCs and then also configured the IPs to the all interfaces of the router and then turned on the ports on it
and did the very important thing which was static routing created a static routes in the each router so that the PCs can communicate back and forth.

Doing the lab today again improved my sill in routing and maked me comfortable in the static routing, these hands on labs really help alot to gain practice and in the end did 3 subnetting question.

---

This was all about the Day-19 in my journey, Today felt like not doing but still did and practiced from tomorrow I will push hard my self in it and focus more.
