---
title: "Day-18 of My Cybersecurity Learning Journey"
date: 2025-12-28 10:00:00 +0500
categories: [Daily Learning]
author: Amol Kumar
tags: [Networking,Tryhackme Room,subnetting]
---

# **What things I learned Today**
Today I finished one room in the Tryhackme path it was about the REMnux VM, and conitnued my Routing section and learned some more topics in it like the different types of the routing protocols and about address translation, and in the end did
a Static routing Lab in cisco packet tracer with 4 routers and 2 PCs.

# Networking
Continued my Routing section from the Network+ course and learned about routing protocols
1. Router advertisement Method
2. The two main types the Distance vector, Link state routing protocols and Hybrid
3. The two main categores the Internal and external
4. Then learned about the different types of the routing protocols like the RIP, OSPF, IS-IS, EIGRP, BGP.
5. Learned about the Network Address Translation(NAT) and its types.

Only few topics is left in the routing section and tomorrow it will be finished.

# Practiced Networking in Lab
Today I created a network with 4 routers and 2 PCs to see the static routing in action and practically.
1. I connected all the devices with the appropriate cables and in the interfaces.
2. Then configured IPs to all the Routers Interfaces.
3. Then also assigned the IP and the gateway to the PCs
4. Then configured a static routing between routers so that the two different PCs on different network can communicate
5. Then tested the PC2 by pinging it by PC1 and vice-versa.

I really learnt so many things in this practicall I can see how the PCs send thier packet to the Gateway which is thier LAN router and how the router then decides where to send the traffic in the network because of 
that static routing that we configure, and how the pacet travel all along the network to communicate to that specific device, and I also got to know how this static routing can be very hecting when working with a big network.
I will continue to do this labs so that I can get good amount of skills in networking and most important part see those protocols really doing action as I learn in the theory.

# REMnux VM room
I completed the REMnux VM room which is basically a Virtual Machine for more specific to malware analysis this VM have much of the tools which is needed in the Malware anlaysis and Digital forensics this room gave me 
the taste of this tools in the defensive security. Used **oledump.py** for file analysis created a fake nework using **inetSIM** to see how acutally the malware make the internet connections and in the end preprocessed a memory capture using volatility and strings
which is used in the digital fornesics and threat hunting

---

This was all about the Day-18, learned few things today, it really feel awseome to see those networking things in action where we do practicals rather than only learning theory, I have came little far and there is 
more to go, tomorrow's goal will be complete the the rest of the room in the defensive security section and move to the security priciples section in the Cyber Security 101 path, and complete the Routing section and again do 
atleast one practice lab in the cisco packet tracer.
