---
title: "Day-13 of My Cybersecurity Learning Journey"
date: 2025-12-23 10:00:00 +0500
categories: [Daily Learning]
author: Amol Kumar
tags: [Networking,Firewall,Tryhackme,Packet Tracer]
---

# **What I learned Today**
Today I completed one room from the Cyber Sec 101 path, continued my Network+ course on the udemy and learned some more networking concept and practiced it in Cisco Packet Tracer.

# Tryhackme Room
Today completed the Firewall room and learned some basics concept of Firewall
- What does the firewall actually do, different types of firewall, what are the action it can perform
- Did hands on practice on my windows 11 by applying firewall rule in the windows defender.
- Learned about different types of firewall tool in the Linux OS and the baisics command like the `ufw default allow inbound` and some other `ufw` commands.

# Networking--Udemy
Continued my Network+ course on the udemy and today learned about the IP addressing.These concepts were not new to me as I have already learned some concept in the THM path.
- Learned the different types of IP addressing.
- The structure of the IPv4 addressing.
- Classes of the IPv4 addressing with their IP ranges.
- Public and the Private IPs, NAT, the Private IP ranges.

Tommorrow I will learn the **Subnetting** concept

# Practiced Networking in the Cisco Packet Tracer
Installed the cisco packet tracer and builded first Local Area Network with the help of Swith and assigned IPs to the host and saw the simulation of packeting traveling in the network. This is what I practiced
today in the network. My goal will be to atleast daily practice networking by creating small networks.

---
So this was all about Day-13 in this Journey, I feel daily like I could have pushed more today and I have to focus more.
