---
title: "Day-15 of My Cybersecurity Learning Journey"
date: 2025-12-25 10:00:00 +0500
categories: [Daily Learning]
author: Amol Kumar
tags: [Networking,CVE,Tryhackme,Packet Tracer,subnetting]
---

# **What things I learned Today in Cybersecurity**
Today I finished two froms from the Path and learned about the Vulnerability Scanners and cyberchef tool and did practicals on it, in networking today I stronged the concept of subnetting and today more focused
on the VLSM and did practice on creating and assigning class A,B and C network to the pcs and router and checked the connectivity in packet tracer.

# Two Rooms in the Tryhackme
Today completed two rooms in the path first one was the Vulnerability scanner overview room where I understood what is actually a vulnerability and what is the importance of patching it.
- I learned about many vulnerability scanner tools like the Nessus, qualys, Nexpose and the openVAS, did hands on practical by using openVAS and scanned a network and finded out vulnerabilities.
- Learned about the CVE and the difference between CVE and CVSS
- Got really some blue teaming practical in this learning about the vulnerability scanners 

The other room was the cyberchef which is widely used tool in cybersecurity, it helps us in so many ways from extracting things like the IP or domain name from encoding and decoding the input.
- Practically used cyberchef online and did some hands on practical on it.
- learned about the four main step which is essential to learn before using the Cyberchef.
- got ot learn about the operations, recipie, and adding the input to it.
- and in the end did practicall by analysing a file and extracting useful information in the Tryhackme Lab.


# Networking
Today I practice more questions on the VLSM subnetting and today I really builded the confidence of subnetting now I can really subnet the networks and can tell that in which subnet the IP is, what is the broadcast
address and the first and last host, can count the no. of host, and can really divide the network in the required number of subnets or hosts.

From tomorrow I will continue further in the course of Network+ and learn about routing, and will daily practice one or two subnetting questions, to make ourself better in it.

# Created Network in packet tracer
Today I actually assigned three different class IPs to 3 different LANs connected with a switch and router and after assigning the IPs to the pc also assingned the IPs to all the interface of the router, and
in the end tested pinging from one LANs pc to another LANs pc, and I really learnt a lot in this, till now I only learned that router connects different networks and today I really saw the whole process by creating 
a network in the Packet tracer, saw how the router took the decision and sended the traffic back and forth in the network only to the specific device from tomorrow I will do some more practice in networking.

---
This was all for the Day-16, I am really learning alot, although I believe that I am learning slow but the things are really getting to clicked when I practice those packet tracer things, nowdays I am not so much
focucsed on the tryhackme and only learning 1-2 rooms on it, I am now close to finish the Cyber Security 101 path and in few days I am gonna finish it the path is also teaching me so many things.
