---
title: "Day-15 of My Cybersecurity Learning Journey"
date: 2025-12-25 10:00:00 +0500
categories: [Daily Learning]
author: Amol Kumar
tags: [Networking,IDS,Tryhackme,]
---

# **Things I learned Today**
Today my most of the time went in understanding the Subnetting concept more clearely and practice some questions and learned about the IPv6, still there is some concept which I have to learn and practice to get it understand properly.
Conitnued my room of IDS Fundamentals from the path on the Tryhackme and completed it, today my goal was to practice the subnetting in the Packet tracer but I couldn't because I have to first understand the subnetting
properly then I will implement it in practically.

# IDS Fundamental Room
Continued from where I left yesterday and completed it by practically using Snort IDS to understand the basic principle of the IDS and to get some hand on experience in it.
1. Created some local rules and understood the basic syntax to create a custom rule which we can use later to Scan the network in real-time based on that Rule.
2. Used the packet analysis mode in the snort by analysing a SSH and Ping connection in logs, and the snort generated the alerts according the rule generated in the local rules file.

Although I have understood the basic concept of the IDS and gained some experience but still there is a lot to practice in it and try some other open source IDS tools also.

# Networking 
Today in networking learned the new topic about the IPv6, and gave more time to subnetting by practicing its question and learning some more things deeply.
1. I can now calculate the subnet id of a given IP address.
2. can calculate the right prefix to use when there are specific needs of hosts in a network or specific number of subnets in the network.
3. understood the class C subnetting properly, some more practice is still needed to learn properly.

---
This was all about the Day-15, gave much of the time today in subnetting and practiced, Today its been 15 days since I started posting daily and there is so much things I got to learn in these days, there were
also some days where I didn't feel like studying but still learned about one topic on that day, I am not gonna stop this journey will learn daily and post daily to document everything and build consistency and 
discipline.
