---
title: "Day-20 of My Cybersecurity Learning Journey"
date: 2025-12-30 10:00:00 +0500
categories: [Daily Learning]
author: Amol Kumar
tags: [Networking,Subnetting,Tryhackme Room]
---

# **Things I did Today**
Today I started a new section from the network+ course which is Network services and learned about the DHCP and DNS and more things left in it, I did one room today on the Tryhackme Path learning about the OWASP Top 10 and the failures realted to the IAAA model
and in the end just practiced 3 subnetting question and today didn' do any lab of networking.

# Networking 
Started new section about the Network services and learned about the DHCP and DNS these services are not new to me because I have already learned about these things in the Tryhackme Path rooms but learning today here in the course
really gave me some new knowledge and also refreshed my knowledge in these services, there are still some topics left in this section and tomorrow I will complete this whole section.
1. I learned about the DORA process which is done by the DHCP server and the client
2. Learned about the DHCP relay which is used for the DHCP server which is used outside of the network.
3. Learned about the SLAAC which is used for the autoconfiguration of IPv6
4. Then continued to the DNS, learned about the FQDN learned little bit properly beacuse earlier I couldn't understand it properly
5. Then learned the hireracy of the DNS
6. in the end got to know the difference between the FQDN AND URL
7. and also learned about the Host file and how it is used in the security purposes and how attacker can also use to do phising attacks.

# Tryhackme Room
Today completed a new room about the OWASP Top 10 here I got to know about what actually is the OWASP Top 10 and it is used by the security practicenor.
1. Learned about the A01,A07 and A09 it was about the broken access control, authentication failures and logging failures.
2. Learned about the essentials of the IAAA and how these A01, A07, and A07 describe the failure of the implementation of IAAA.

I tried to continue to the next room in this section and it was little bit hard for me, it required some more knowledge in the web applications like the APIs and other things and these things are still left to learn for me.
will try to do those rooms as well, my goal is to start the SOC Lvl1 path as soon as possible in the Tryhackme.

---

This was all about the Day-20 in the journey, it looked like I didn't do much today, only read the concept and only learned few things, the practical thing lagged today because I think I am still learning the section
but tommorrow I will do more and get things done.
