---
title: "Day-26 of My Cybersecurity Learning Journey"
date: 2026-01-05 10:00:00 +0500
categories: [Daily Learning]
author: Amol Kumar
tags: [Networking,Tryhackme Room,SOC Lvl1 path,Networking Lab]
layout: post
---

# **Things I learned Today**
So Today on the Day-25 of my journey, I started new section in the network+ which was Network attacks and learned few attacks, Started my new path on Tryhackme which is SOC Lvl 1 as I said yesterday and started my
journey to build some real SOC analyst skills for the Blue teaming, then praticed a VLAN networking Lab today, I have studied about the VLAN earler in theory but its time to do the practical lab so today I deciced to do the lab
and done the half way of the lab.

# Networking 
Started the new section called Network attacks in the network+ course which is really important to learn from the defensive side perspectives, firstly knowing about attacks is important because then only I can learn how to protect organizations from these attacks.
1. Learned about the Dos and DDoS attack the difference between them, and what actually the attackers do to perform this attack like the TCP SYN Flood and the ICMP Flood and also learned in the end that what defensive measures we can take to prevent those types of attacks like using IDS/IPS, firewalls and load balancers.
2. Learned about the MAC flooding attack, how does it happens, what happens during the attack, why do attackers do these attacks and in the end also learned about some defensive meausres.
3. Learned about the ARP attack and the two main types ARP Spoofing and the ARP cache, learned the mechanism behind the attacks, how does the attackers benifits from this attack and some defenses also to stop the arp attacks.
4. Learned the VLAN Hopping which attackers perform by two mechanism Double Tagging and Swith spoofing, learned how the attacker use double Vlan tags and DTP to perform these attacks and some defensive measures too.

Covered 4 main network attacks today and learning about their defensive measure will also help me to protect the organizations from these types of attacks.

# Tryhackme
Started the new path SOC Lvl 1 and did two rooms in it learned learn the journey of the junior security analyst or Soc analyst 1 and SOC role in blue team.I got to learn so much things about the Blue team in cybersecurity by these rooms.
1. First learned what are the daily duties and how a day look like of a junior security Analyst or the SOC analyst 1.
2. also got to know some more roles in the Blue team like the soc manager, senior analyst, security engineer and incident responder.
3. Learned about the security Hierarchy in a organization and also that the hirerachy can be different in every company according to their needs.
4. Learned about whom to reach when we want to escalate the alert and also praticed blocking the IP from the seim alert in the Tryhackme VM.

Today's room really gave me a broad view of how a security team looks like in the organization and the security hierarcy in a organization and also that the team totally depends upon the size of the orgainzation like there will be 
small company where the IT department will take care of the security operations, there will be mid-size company too where there will be separated teams for each work like the SOC, Red teaming and GRC all that.

# Practiced Networking Lab
Today I started praticing the VLAN concept which I learned earlier, its very important to learn the practical of VLAN because this increases the security in the network and learning this will really build up my SOC skills
so I started first assigning the IPs by calculating the usable host IPs and the broadcast address to assign the proper default gateway to the PCs, I have done only the half way of the lab tomorrow will complete the whole lab, doing practical today really
refreshed my VLAN concepts which I studied earlier and realised and how much important is the VLAN in networking.

---

So this was all about the Day-26 in the journey, now going deep in the blue teaming to build the SOC skills which will eventually help me to protect the orgaization as working in the security operations center,
learning about the attacks in networking and its counter measures really will help me in my SOC roles, now the subnetting don't daunt me, learning consistently daily.
