---
title: "Day-01 of My Cybersecurity Learning Journey"
date: 2025-12-11 10:00:00 +0500
categories: [Daily Learning]
author: Amol Kumar
tags: [Nmap,Web fundamentals]
---

# **Topic I studied Today:**

Today I learned about the web fundamentals,and Nmap 

Right now I am on the Cyber-sercurity 101 path of the Tryhackme and daily have a goal to finish atleast two rooms, and today I started the new module called Web hacking although my goal is to learn blue teaming but learning little bit about the red teaming before teaming let us give some knowledge that how the attack works,How the attacker think to break into machines, what ways they can use to attack the machine.

# In the web fundamentals room I learned about these things:

1. How the basic web application works, what technologies they use. 
2. URL, every part in the URL what they mean, and why they are used,like the scheme,domain,port,path,query string and many things.
3. HTTP request and HTTP Response, HTTP methods, HTTP version, different types of Request headers along with the response codes 
like the 200,404,500,300 and many more..
4. The security headers which is used by the web application to protect the web application from modern day web attacks.
5. And in the end I saw this whole thing in action by doing lab in the machine they provided.

# Things I learned in Nmap:

Nmap is a network mapper tool used to scan ports on a target.I learned using Nmap in the networking module in the path.But today I discovered a new room named Nmap and started learning from it and got some deep knowledge about this Nmap tool like, why only this tool why not other one,What does the tool actually do while it scan for ports.

Some things I learned about Nmap today in my own language:
1. Nmap not only scan for open targets on the remote machine, it can even search for the vulnerable service they are running by the help of scripting and sometimes it can even exploit, although I haven't seen that thing in practical yet.
2. Learned about the 3 top most scan the Nmap does 
    i. TCP Scan=where the Nmap do the complete 3-way handshake to the machine and then give results.
    ii. SYN Scan = also known as the stealth mode or the half-open scan, in this the nmap does not do the full TCP-Handshake.
    iii. UDP Scan = in this scan nmap scans the ports which work on UDP protocol and this differ from the rest of the two tcp scan,in this the nmap send the udp packet and in no response it classify that the machine have a open port and if the port is closed it send a Ping echo reply packet.

I didn't completed the whole Nmap room yet as today I also had some university work tomorrow I will finish the whole room and also do the practically what I will learn.

---

This is how my Day 1 of Learning cybersecurity went, Its not about that from which level I am starting right now, its about doing this thing consistently daily and try to learn new things to become disciplined and to become 1% everyday.







