---
title: "Day-04 of My Cybersecurity Learning Journey"
date: 2025-12-14 10:00:00 +0500
categories: [Daily Learning]
author: Amol Kumar
tags: [Tryhackme Room,Linux commands,Networking]
---

# **Topic I studied Today:**

I continued my Cybersecurity 101 Path on the THM and completed one room from it , it was SQL fundamentals, learned so much things about the Databases and SQL and then,Continued my Network+ course on the Udemy which I mentioned on my Day 1st journey and studied the Network media and connectors, and in the end studied some linux from the linux course from the udemy whose link is also on the Day 1st post.

# Things I learned from the SQL fundamentals:

1. As we interact with SQL daily in any means that's why it was essential to learn and so I continued and learned  and learned about the basics of databases, primary key and foreign key, it was not all new to me it was like a refreshment because I have studied DBMS in my university semester. 
2. SQL basics and their intro, tried the basics commands of the SQL in the Linux machines, created databases and tables.
3. Learned about the CRUD operations we can perform and applied the knowledge by practicing commands to solve the end quizzes.
4. Learned about the operators and functions.

# Networking Part

I don't know the networking completely yet I do understand more about the beginners but still there is more left to learn and for that reason I continued my Network+ course and today learned about the network media and connectors.

Learned about those 3 main types of media, the copper cable, fiber optic cable and the radio waves, their types and also their connectors like the RJ11,RJ45, RG6,RG59 and some more..

There is a lot left to learn in the networking and the fact is nobody can learn everything about the networking its daily growing knowledge and I have to learn a lot.


# Linux concepts today

I do not use Linux machines completely as my daily driver now , because there are some things left to learn like the file permission, process management, networking and some administrator level task, so I continued learning linux and studied about permission and some old concepts like the find and grep command to practice 

---

# My Thoughts

I am not feeling like I am putting my all efforts in Learning like I am having holidays now from college and still I am able to learn only little, I am also wasting my too much time on others things, I cant focus completely on this. I have so many resources to learn from, Just take time to even complete a single room on the linux and not planning my whole day, I am moving as one task finish, I have to make a proper plan like what things to do today and what things should be completed today.

So this is was my Day-4 of the cybersecurity Journey.


