---
title: "Day-23 of My Cybersecurity Learning Journey"
date: 2026-01-02 10:00:00 +0500
categories: [Daily Learning]
author: Amol Kumar
tags: [Networking,Tryhackme Room,Subnetting]
---

# **Things I learned Today**
Today I started new section from the Network+ course and learned about the cloud computing, Completed 1 complete room on Tryhackme which was the Burpsuite basics and half room of the Shells overview and practiced 3 subnetting questions.

# Networking
Started the new section in the course and learned about the cloud computing where are I learned about the cloud computing, and the benifits of cloud computing.
1. Different Types of service model used, Saas,PaaS,and IaaS.
2. Different types of deployment model like the public, private, hybrid community and two more.

This is it I learned today in networking thinking to not go deep in cloud computing yet

# Tryhackme Room
Completed one room in the Tryhackme Path which was the burpsuite basics and learn the overview of this Web application testing framework or tool.
1. Learned about the different editions of burpusite and their uses.
2. Learned about the project or user settings and the Global setting.
3. Explored the main modules in the burpsuite which was, Proxy, Intruder, repeater and comparer and some others.
4. Connected the browser to the proxy with an extension.
5. Then did hands on practical by using proxy in the burpsuite by switching on the intercept and monitored the request in the browser.
6. really learned so much about this tool and got a taste about this burpsuite tool and about its capabilities.

There are more rooms in this burpusite section which I will encouter later when I will wish to learn the Web application security.

---

This was all about the Day-23 in the Journey of cybersecurity, I still feel like I am not learning much in the day and getting distracted in other things, I am learning only few things and doubting ourself that
should I do this or not is this needed or not like today I was thinking that is learning about cloud yet is important or not so should I start or not the cloud computing section, I waste so much of the time of the day 
in other things and only dedicating few time in the cybersecurity before I was more focused but slowly slowly loosing my focus and only giving few time to it and achieving little things only in cybersecurity,
so this is what happening with me these days , today is the 2nd day of the 2026, I should regain my focus and give most effort in achieving my daily goals in cybersecurity.
