---
title: "Day-24 of My Cybersecurity Learning Journey"
date: 2026-01-03 10:00:00 +0500
categories: [Daily Learning]
author: Amol Kumar
tags: [Networking,Tryhackme Room,Subnetting,Packet Tracer,Linux]
layout: post
---

# **Things I Did Today**
Completed Two rooms on the Tryhackme Path, Learned about some network security fundamentals from the Network+ course, Learned few linux networking commands from the udemy course, Did one Packet tracer lab where
I saw the layers headers of the packet when it is travelling over the network.

# Networking
Today I started the new section from the Network+ course which was network security fundamentals and learned few topics in it.
1. Learned about the CIA triad and how it is maintained in network security.
2. Learned about the different types of threats and vulnerabilities.
3. Learned about risk management and risk assessment

# Linux commands
Today I learned few networking commands in the Linux such as `ifconfig`, `ip`, `route` commands with thier options and also practiced those commands.
1. Learned how we can use these commands to view all the info about network interfaces.
2. Learned how to configure ip address with the `ifconfig` and `ip` command.
3. also learned about how to change the default gateway of an interfaces.

# Tryhackme Room
Today completed 2 rooms in the Tryhackme Path were I learned about the different types of shells and also learned about the SQL injection vulnerability.
1. Learned different types of shells like the reverse shells, bind shells and web shells and how the reverse shell is set up to get the connection fromt the target properly and in the end practice those commands
in the simulated environment where I compromised a web server with the reverse shell and web shells.
2. in the second room learned about the most critical vulnerability in the web application which was the SQL injection, learned how the `OR` operator does his work in this injection and how then the database of server's are compromised and tricked to retrieve data from the databases.
3. Did hands on practical of the SQL injection vulnerability with a automated tool called sqlmap and retrieved the critical data from a database, really got to know how this sql injection vulnerability is exploited and how much important is to path those vulnerability in the web applications.

# Practiced networking 
In the end practiced a lab of networking in the Packet tracer, where I saw the layers headers of packet when it travels accross the networks, saw how that specific header changes when the packet is sent from one interface to another device interface, and
saw which header gets changed and which not, also saw the working of the ARP by seeing the header of the arp packet, specially the source and destination MAC address.

---

This was all about Today Day-24 in the journey, did many things also learned many things now soon the Cyber sec 101 path gonna end in the Tryhackme and will start the SOC Lvl 1 path where the rooms will get more specific
to the Soc rooms and will get to learn more things, now its time to learn more deeply and focus on one thing at a time, I am building the fundamentals also along till now I have covered so many things in fundamentals
which I had to now I can completely tell how a packet travels in the network and what actually happens when two devices communicate on the network whether its local device or remote device, now I am also little bit
comfortable in the linux terminal but still there are a lot left to practice because cybersecurity comes by practice.
