---
title: "Day-27 of My Cybersecurity Learning Journey"
date: 2026-01-06 10:00:00 +0500
categories: [Daily Learning]
author: Amol Kumar
tags: [Networking,Tryhackme Room]
layout: post
---

# **Things I did today**
Today I completed two rooms on the Tryhackme path learning about the Humans and the system as threat vectors and in Networking I continued the Network attack section and learned about few attacks and thier defense mechanism.
Today I couldn't do much as I was busy in my end sem project of college which is necessary to do.

# Tryhackme Rooms
The two rooms which I did today was about the Human and the systems as threat actors, today learned what and who we will be protecting as our SOC role.
1. From the first room I learned that the human is the weakest link in the cybersecurity most of the attacks are happen because of the Human flaw and they make the attackers job easier.
2. SOC main task is the mitigate and detect the alerts and learned the actuall meaning of the mitigation and how can we do that in the organization as our SOC role.
3. Learned about the social engineering attack happen to trick the employes of a company making them the victim, its major types like the Phising attack, the malware attacks and the deepkakes which is in trend because of the AI
4. and learned how much important is to conduct the security training for the employees to make sure no body falls in the phising scams or other social engineering attacks.
5. also did hands on practice on realistic incidets that happen in SOC room.

The second room **System as attacks vectors** also taught so much things.
1. Learned why attackers target the systems, and how.
2. They exploit the human flaws like using simple passwords in main endpoint devices or systems, misconfiguration of devices and also from the supply-chain attack.
3. Learned about how the SOC and the attackers comes into a race when a new CVE is updated, SOC tries to apply patches to the vulnerabilites and attackers try to exploit them.
4. Learned the importance or regularly conducting security audits of the devices to look for any misconfiguration so that we can fix those things before attackers get to know.

# Networking 
Continued my network attacks section and learned about some few attacks today like the DNS attack and thier types,On-path attacks and about the rogue attacks.
1. studied different types of DNS attacks like the DNS tunneling, DNS spoofing, DNS hijacking and some more and also also their defensive measures,like using DNSSEC, disabling open resolvers, rate limiting and some other more.
2. Learned about the different types of On-path attacks and thier measures.
3. also learned about the rogue devices and how much important is to detect the rogue devices in the network and disabling them to secure the network.

---

This was all about the Day-27 of the journey, today I couldn't do much like practing networking labs or some more things because I was busy in making the end sem college project and will be busy some days too but I will not 
stop this consistency of learning and will daily try to learn in upcoming busy days along with my college lectures.
